my name is Susan Forks and for the next
few weeks I will be an anthropology
senior here at the University of
Colorado at Colorado Springs my degree
is in anthropology it's a Bachelor of
Arts and anthropology with a
specialization in linguistics my minor
is in geography and once I finish the
undergrad degree i'm going to go on to
do post grad studies in linguistics
specifically neurolinguistics how the
brain processes language I was very
fortunate to be selected to work on a
dig site in San Ignacio villeins it's a
dig that focuses on my in-house bounce
looking at everyday tools and cutlery
pottery things that everyday Mayans used
and it was absolutely fascinating to
look at at these ceramic pieces and know
that someone actually ate off this
report went in the ground before I came
back to school the second time around I
actually was a military helicopter pilot
for 16 years I enrolled in the canadian
forces in 1988 and i received my wings
as a tactical helicopter pilot in 1990
my background as a helicopter pilot I
think is pretty unique there's only
about probably a hundred of us in Canada
that have done this over a period of
about 25 years it opened to women in
Canada in nineteen eighty i came in in
1988 and was the first female pilot to
fly tactically with 408 squadron in
Edmonton so I also then in 1994 became
the first female pilot to be set to the
United Kingdom as an exchange pilot and
the first to be promoted to major as an
Operations Officer so that the first
just kept coming along so my background
is fairly unique I think I was very
fortunate in my career that I came into
the military at a time when they were
opening up tactical roles for women so
unlike my predecessors who were limited
to flying search and rescue or transport
I was actually able to go and deploy
into theaters of war that had not been
done before so Bosnia Somalia as I year
I was able to actually go in and fly in
those environments and I now I think
given women the opportunity to at least
consider that as a possibility in their
career
the advice that I would offer to someone
who's looking at furthering their
education later in life is to pick
something that you're really interested
in often when we come out of high school
we're not really sure what we want to do
our parents may have influenced us as to
what we want to study but once we get a
little bit older once we're mature
students we should follow the things
that interest us the most
you